AFU implementations must indicate which top-level interface they expect.
The afu_platform_config script matches a platform to the expected AFU
interface.  AFUs demand a particular top-level interface either by passing
the interface name to afu_platform_config's --ifc argument or by encoding
the interface name in the AFU's packager JSON database.  The JSON option
offers more control, since top-level interface parameters can be modified.

The interface encoding in JSON is in the afu-image:afu-top-interface:name
field:

```json
{
   ...
   "afu-image": {
      ...
      "afu-top-interface":
         {
            "name": "ccip_std_afu"
         }
   }
}
```

In addition to the name, some module-arguments parameters may be
overridden in the AFU JSON database.  For example, the following
requests automatic registering of CCI-P signals on platforms that
need more than one register stage, makes local memory optional and
adds clock-crossing logic so that local memory's interface runs at
the same frequency as CCI-P.  These transformations are performed
in a shim that is automatically instantiated between the platform
and the AFU's top-level module.

```json
{
   ...
   "afu-image": {
      ...
      "afu-top-interface":
         {
            "name": "ccip_std_afu_avalon_mm",
            "module-arguments" :
               [
                  {
                     "class": "cci-p",
                     "params":
                        {
                           "add-extra-timing-reg-stages": "auto"
                        }
                  },
                  {
                     "class": "local-memory",
                     "optional": true,
                     "params":
                        {
                           "clock": "pClk"
                        }
                  }
               ]
         }
   }
}
```

Note, also, that this AFU declared local memory optional.
Using preprocessor variables generated by afu_platform_config, an AFU
declaring local memory optional must be prepared to compile correctly
whether or not local memory is available.

Other module-arguments requirements may also be modified here, including
default-entries, max-entries and min-entries.
